---
title: "Gradle Plugin"
weight: 200
description: >
---

## Overview {#overview}

The Gradle plugin provided by Komapper generates the following two types of 
Kotlin source code from database metadata:

- Entity classes
- Mapping definitions

See [Entity Classes]({{< relref "entity-class" >}}) for entity classes and mapping definitions.

{{< alert title="Note" >}}
Use of this Gradle plugin is not required. 
Please consider using this plugin if you already have table definitions in your database.
{{< /alert >}}

## How to use {#how-to-use}

The latest version of the plugin can be found on 
the [Gradle plugin portal site](https://plugins.gradle.org/plugin/org.komapper.gradle).

The following code is an example of Gradle build script using the plugin:

```kotlin
buildscript {
    repositories {
        mavenCentral()
    }
    // Define dependencies on Testcontainers and PostgreSQL JDBC driver
    dependencies {
        classpath(platform("org.testcontainers:testcontainers-bom:1.17.1"))
        classpath("org.testcontainers:postgresql")
        classpath("org.postgresql:postgresql:42.3.4")
    }
}

// Declare the use of the Komapper plugin
plugins {
  id("org.komapper.gradle") version "5.1.0"
}

// Configure settings related to the Komapper plugin
komapper {
    generators {
        // Name the register block appropriately for each database to be used, and write the settings in the block
        register("postgresql") {
            val initScript = file("src/main/resources/init_postgresql.sql")
            // Set JDBC parameters; use PostgreSQL on Testcontainers
            jdbc {
                driver.set("org.testcontainers.jdbc.ContainerDatabaseDriver")
                url.set("jdbc:tc:postgresql:13.3:///test?TC_INITSCRIPT=file:${initScript.absolutePath}")
                user.set("test")
                password.set("test")
            }
            packageName.set("org.komapper.example.postgresql")
            overwriteEntities.set(true)
            overwriteDefinitions.set(true)
        }
    }
}
```

After setting up the above, the entity classes and mapping definitions can be 
generated by executing the following command:

```sh
$ ./gradlew komapperGenerator
```

The same result can be obtained by explicitly specifying the name passed to the `register` function:

```sh
$ ./gradlew komapperPostgresqlGenerator
```

See also [Examples]({{< relref "../Examples#codegen" >}}).

## Parameter list {#parameter-list}

Indicates the parameters that can be set within the `register` block.

### jdbc.driver

Represents the JDBC driver class name.

<span class="-text-red">Setting is required</span>.

### jdbc.url

Represents a JDBC URL.

<span class="-text-red">Setting is required</span>.

### jdbc.user

Represents a JDBC user.

### jdbc.password

Represents a JDBC password

### catalog

Represents a catalog name, which is used to get database metadata.

This value is passed as a parameter to the
[DatabaseMetaData#getTables](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.sql/java/sql/DatabaseMetaData.html#getTables(java.lang.String,java.lang.String,java.lang.String,java.lang.String%5B%5D))
method.

### schemaPattern

Represents a schema name pattern, which is used to get database metadata.

It can be written similarly to a LIKE predicate, such as `%SALES%`.

This value is passed as a parameter to the 
[DatabaseMetaData#getTables](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.sql/java/sql/DatabaseMetaData.html#getTables(java.lang.String,java.lang.String,java.lang.String,java.lang.String%5B%5D))
method.

### tableNamePattern

Represents a table name pattern, which is used to get database metadata.

It can be written similarly to a LIKE predicate, such as `JOB%`.

This value is passed as a parameter to the
[DatabaseMetaData#getTables](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.sql/java/sql/DatabaseMetaData.html#getTables(java.lang.String,java.lang.String,java.lang.String,java.lang.String%5B%5D))
method.

### tableTypes

Represents table types, which are used to get database metadata.

The default value is a list containing only `TABLE`.

This parameter can contain following values:

- TABLE
- VIEW

This value is passed as a parameter to the
[DatabaseMetaData#getTables](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.sql/java/sql/DatabaseMetaData.html#getTables(java.lang.String,java.lang.String,java.lang.String,java.lang.String%5B%5D))
method.

### destinationDir

The output destination for the generated Kotlin source code.

The default value is `src/main/kotlin`.

{{< alert title="Note" >}}
The source code for entity classes is output as "entities.kt".
And the source code for mapping definitions is output as "entityDefinitions.kt".

These file names cannot be changed.
{{< /alert >}}

### useSelfMapping

A flag indicating whether [Self mapping]({{< relref "entity-class#self-mapping-definition" >}}) is used or not.
If the flag is `false`, [Separation mapping]({{< relref "entity-class#separation-mapping-definition" >}}) is used.

The default value is `false`.

### packageName

The package name of the generated entity classes and mapping definition classes.

### prefix

A prefix for the simple name of generated entity classes.

The default value is an empty string.

### suffix

A suffix for the qualified name of generated entity classes.

The default value is an empty string.

### singularize

Indicates whether the generated entity class names will be singular.
If the flag is `true`, the singular name of entity class are generated from the plural name of table.

The default value is `false`.

### useTableNameAsAlias

Indicates whether the [aliases]({{< relref "entity-class#metamodel-aliases" >}}) property is generated based on the table name.

The default value is `false`.

### overwriteEntities

Indicates whether the source code of the generated entity classes should be overwritten.

The default value is `false`.

### overwriteDefinitions

Indicates whether the source code of the generated mapping definition classes should be overwritten.

The default value is `false`.

### declareAsNullable

Indicates whether all properties of the generated entity classes should be declared as nullable types.

The default value is `false`.

If this value is `false`, the decision to declare the property as a nullable type 
is determined from the database metadata for each property.

### useCatalog

Indicates whether the catalog name should be explicit in the generated mapping definitions.

The default value is `false`.

### useSchema

Indicates whether the schema name should be explicit in the generated mapping definitions.

The default value is `false`.

### propertyTypeResolver

A resolver that determines the types of properties of the generated entity classes.

The default value is `org.komapper.codegen.PropertyTypeResolver.of()`.

### enquote

A function that quotes SQL identifiers.

The default value is `org.komapper.codegen.Enquote.of()`.

### classNameResolver

A resolver that determines the names of the generated entity classes.

The default value is `org.komapper.codegen.ClassNameResolver.of(prefix, suffix, singularize)`.

### propertyNameResolver

A resolver that determines the names of properties of the generated entity classes.

The default value is `org.komapper.codegen.PropertyNameResolver.of()`.

### versionPropertyName

A name of property to set [`@KomapperVersion`]({{< relref "entity-class#komapperversion" >}}) annotation.

The default value is an empty string.

### createdAtPropertyName

A name of property to set [`@KomapperCreatedAt`]({{< relref "entity-class#komappercreatedat" >}}) annotation.

The default value is an empty string.

### updatedAtPropertyName

A name of property to set [`@KomapperUpdatedAt`]({{< relref "entity-class#komapperupdatedat" >}}) annotation.

The default value is an empty string.
